h2. Create Project

h3. Create SBT project

* make project directory.
* cd to new directory.
* Run SBT and create a new project.

Eg.

<pre>
>mkdir ScalaAppEngine
>cd ScalaAppEngine
>sbt
Project does not exist, create new project? (y/N/s) y
Name: ScalaAppEngine
Organization: org.jgh
Version [1.0]:
Scala version [2.7.7]: 2.8.1
sbt version [0.7.4]:
Getting Scala 2.7.7 ...
:: retrieving :: org.scala-tools.sbt#boot-scala
        confs: [default]
        2 artifacts copied, 0 already retrieved (9911kB/249ms)
Getting org.scala-tools.sbt sbt_2.7.7 0.7.4 ...
:: retrieving :: org.scala-tools.sbt#boot-app
        confs: [default]
        15 artifacts copied, 0 already retrieved (4096kB/999ms)
[success] Successfully initialized directory structure.
Getting Scala 2.8.1 ...
:: retrieving :: org.scala-tools.sbt#boot-scala
        confs: [default]
        2 artifacts copied, 0 already retrieved (15118kB/889ms)
[info] Building project ScalaAppEngine 1.0 against Scala 2.8.1
[info]    using sbt.DefaultProject with sbt 0.7.4 and Scala 2.7.7
>
</pre>

h3. Create the SBT build files

Create "build" and "plugins" directories in the "project" directory of your project.

<pre>
>mkdir project/build
>mkdir project/plugins
</pre>

Create a project.scala file in the build directory

<pre>
import sbt._
class ScalaAppEngineProject(info: ProjectInfo) extends AppengineProject(info) with IdeaProject  {
}
</pre>

Create plugins.scala in the plugins directory.

<pre>
import sbt._
class Plugins(info: ProjectInfo) extends PluginDefinition(info) {
  val ideaPluginRepo = "GH-pages repo" at "http://mpeltonen.github.com/maven/"
  lazy val idea = "com.github.mpeltonen" % "sbt-idea-plugin" % "0.1-SNAPSHOT"
  lazy val appEngine = "net.stbbs.yasushi" % "sbt-appengine-plugin" % "2.1" from "http://cloud.github.com/downloads/Yasushi/sbt-appengine-plugin/sbt-appengine-plugin-2.1.jar" ;
}
</pre>

SBT App Engine Plugin:
https://github.com/Yasushi/sbt-appengine-plugin

h3. Generate idea project

Start SBT and run the 'idea' action.

<pre>
>sbt
sbt>idea
info]
info] == idea ==
info] Created C:\dev\workspace\ScalaAppEngine\.idea
info] Created C:\dev\workspace\ScalaAppEngine/project/project.iml
info] Excluding folder target
info] Created C:\dev\workspace\ScalaAppEngine/ScalaAppEngine.iml
info] == idea ==
success] Successful.
info]
</pre>

Open project in intellij

SBT Idea plugin:
https://github.com/mpeltonen/sbt-idea

"Create a simple web application":webapp.html

